---
tags:
  - knowledge-base
category: wifi
---

# Aircrack-ng

[Aircrack-ng](https://github.com/aircrack-ng/aircrack-ng) comprises a comprehensive suite of tools designed for the evaluation of Wi-Fi network security. Prior to initiating any endeavors to analyze or exploit wireless networks, a foundational understanding of the functionalities inherent within these tools is imperative.

Aircrack-ng focuses on different areas of Wi-Fi security:

- `Monitoring`: Packet capture and export of data to text files for further processing by third party tools.
- `Attacking`: Replay attacks, de-authentication, fake access points and others via packet injection.
- `Testing`: Checking Wi-Fi cards and driver capabilities (capture and injection).
- `Cracking`: WEP and WPA PSK (WPA 1 and 2).

The Aircrack-ng suite contains over 20 tools for testing Wi-Fi networks. The main six are listed below.


| **Tool**    | **Description**                                                                                             |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Airmon-ng   | Airmon-ng can enable and disable monitor mode on wireless interfaces.                                       |
| Airodump-ng | Airodump-ng can capture raw 802.11 frames.                                                                  |
| Airgraph-ng | Airgraph-ng can be used to create graphs of wireless networks using the CSV files generated by Airodump-ng. |
| Aireplay-ng | Aireplay-ng can generate wireless traffic.                                                                  |
| Airdecap-ng | Airdecap-ng can decrypt WEP, WPA PSK, or WPA2 PSK capture files.                                            |
| Aircrack-ng | Aircrack-ng can crack WEP and WPA/WPA2 networks that use pre-shared keys or PMKID.                          |

## Airmon-ng

Airmon-ng can be used to enable monitor mode on wireless interfaces. It may also be used to kill network managers, or go back from monitor mode to managed mode. Entering the `airmon-ng` command without parameters will show the wireless interface name, driver and chipset.

```bash
sudo airmon-ng
```

Set the interface to monitor mode

```bash
sudo airmon-ng start wlan0
```

Check/Verify

```bash
iwconfig
```

Check interface processes

```bash
sudo airmon-ng check
```

 If we encounter problems during our engagement, we can terminate processes using the airmon-ng check kill command.

However, it is important to note that this step should only be taken if we are experiencing challenges during the pentesting process.

```sudo
sudo airmon-ng check kill
```

It is also possible to set the wireless card to a specific channel using `airmon-ng`. We can specify the desired channel while enabling monitor mode on the wlan0 interface.

```bash
sudo airmon-ng start wlan0 11
```

Stop monitor mode 

```bash
sudo airmon-ng stop wlan0mon
```

Check/Verify

```bash
iwconfig
```

## Airodump-ng

Airodump-ng serves as a tool for capturing packets, specifically targeting raw 802.11 frames. Its primary function lies in the collection of WEP IVs (Initialization Vectors) or WPA/WPA2 handshakes, which are subsequently utilized with aircrack-ng for security assessment purposes.

Furthermore, airodump-ng generates multiple files containing comprehensive information regarding all identified access points and clients. These files can be harnessed for scripting purposes or the development of personalized tools.

`airodump-ng` provides a wealth of information when scanning for WiFi networks. The table below explains each field along with its description:

| **Field** | **Description**                                                                          |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `BSSID`   | Shows the MAC address of the access points                                               |
| `PWR`     | Shows the "power" of the network. The higher the number, the better the signal strength. |
| `Beacons` | Shows the number of announcement packets sent by the network.                            |
| `#Data`   | Shows the number of captured data packets.                                               |
| `#/s`     | Shows the number of data packets captured in the past ten seconds.                       |
| `CH`      | Shows the "Channel" the network runs on.                                                 |
| `MB`      | Shows the maximum speed supported by the network.                                        |
| `ENC`     | Shows the encryption method used by the network.                                         |
| `CIPHER`  | Shows the cipher used by the network.                                                    |
| `AUTH`    | Shows the authentication used by the network.                                            |
| `ESSID`   | Shows the name of the network.                                                           |
| `STATION` | Shows the MAC address of the client connected to the network.                            |
| `RATE`    | Shows the data transfer rate between the client and the access point.                    |
| `LOST`    | Shows the number of data packets lost.                                                   |
| `Packets` | Shows the number of data packets sent by the client.                                     |
| `Notes`   | Shows additional information about the client, such as captured EAPOL or PMKID.          |
| `PROBES`  | Shows the list of networks the client is probing for.                                    |
To utilize airodump-ng effectively, the first step is to activate `monitor mode` on the wireless interface. This mode allows the interface to capture all the wireless traffic in its vicinity. We can use `airmon-ng` to enable monitor mode on the interface.

```bash
sudo airmon-ng start wlan0
```

Check/Verify

```bash
iwconfig
```

Once Monitor mode is enabled, we can run `airodump-ng` by specifying the name of the targeted wireless interface, such as `airodump-ng wlan0mon`. This command prompts airodump-ng to start scanning and collecting data on the wireless access points detectable by the specified interface.

The output generated by `airodump-ng wlan0mon` will present a structured table containing detailed information about the identified wireless access points.

```bash
sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon
```

### Scan Specific Channels/Single Channel

Single Channel

```bash
sudo airodump-ng -c 11 wlan0mon
```

Specific Channels

```bash
sudo airodump-ng -c 1,6,11 wlan0mon
```

### Scanning 5 GHz Wi-Fi Bands

By default, airodump-ng is configured to scan exclusively for networks operating on the 2.4 GHz band. Nevertheless, if the wireless adapter is compatible with the 5 GHz band, we can instruct airodump-ng to include this frequency range in its scan by utilizing the `--band` option. You can find a list of all WLAN channels and bands available for Wi-Fi [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_WLAN_channels).

The supported bands are a, b, and g
* a uses 5 GHz
* b uses 2.4 GHz
* g uses 2.4 GHz

Set specific band to scan

```bash
sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon --band a
```

Scan all bands at once

```bash
sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon --band abg
```

### Saving Output to File

We can preserve the outcomes of our `airodump-ng` scan by utilizing the `--write <prefix>` parameter. This action generates multiple files with the specified prefix filename. For instance, executing `airodump-ng wlan0mon --write HTB` will generate the following files in the current directory.

- HTB-01.cap
- HTB-01.csv
- HTB-01.kismet.csv
- HTB-01.kismet.netxml
- HTB-01.log.csv

Save output to file

```bash
sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon -w HTB
```

Every time airodump-ng is executed with the command to capture either IVs (Initialization Vectors) or complete packets, it generates additional text files that are saved onto the disk. These files share the same name with the original output and are differentiated by suffixes: ".csv" for CSV files, ".kismet.csv" for Kismet CSV files, and ".kismet.netxml" for Kismet newcore netxml files. These generated files serve different purposes, facilitating diverse forms of data analysis and compatibility with various network analysis tools.

## Airgraph-ng

`Airgraph-ng` is a Python script designed for generating graphical representations of wireless networks using the CSV files produced by `Airodump-ng`. These CSV files from Airodump-ng capture essential data regarding the associations between wireless clients and Access Points (APs), as well as the inventory of probed networks. Airgraph-ng processes these CSV files to produce two distinct types of graphs:

- Clients to AP Relationship Graph: This graph illustrates the connections between wireless clients and Access Points, providing insights into the network topology and the interactions between devices.
- Clients Probe Graph: This graph showcases the probed networks by wireless clients, offering a visual depiction of the networks scanned and potentially accessed by these devices.

By leveraging Airgraph-ng, users can visualize and analyze the relationships and interactions within wireless networks, aiding in network troubleshooting, optimization, and security assessment.

### Client to AP Relationship Graph

The Clients to AP Relationship (CAPR) graph illustrates the connections between clients and access points (APs). Since this graph emphasizes clients, it will not display any APs without connected clients.

The access points are color-coded based on their encryption type:

- Green for WPA
- Yellow for WEP
- Red for open networks
- Black for unknown encryption.

Create CAPR graph

```bash
sudo airgraph-ng -i HTB-01.csv -g CAPR -o HTB_CAPR.png
```

### Common Probe Graph

The Common Probe Graph (CPG) in Airgraph-ng visualizes the relationships between wireless clients and the access points (APs) they probe for. It shows which APs each client is trying to connect to by displaying the probes sent out by the clients. This graph helps identify which clients are probing for which networks, even if they are not currently connected to any AP.

Create CPG Graph

```bash
sudo airgraph-ng -i HTB-01.csv -g CPG -o HTB_CPG.png
```

## Aireplay-ng

The primary function of [Aireplay-ng](https://www.aircrack-ng.org/doku.php?id=aireplay-ng) is to generate traffic for later use in aircrack-ng for cracking the WEP and WPA-PSK keys. There are different attacks that can cause deauthentication for the purpose of capturing WPA handshake data, fake authentications, Interactive packet replay, hand-crafted ARP request injection, and ARP-request reinjection. With the packetforge-ng tool it's possible to create arbitrary frames.

list all the features of aireplay-ng

```bash
aireplay-ng
```

Current Attacks Implemented

|**Attack**|**Attack Name**|
|---|---|
|`Attack 0`|Deauthentication|
|`Attack 1`|Fake authentication|
|`Attack 2`|Interactive packet replay|
|`Attack 3`|ARP request replay attack|
|`Attack 4`|KoreK chopchop attack|
|`Attack 5`|Fragmentation attack|
|`Attack 6`|Cafe-latte attack|
|`Attack 7`|Client-oriented fragmentation attack|
|`Attack 8`|WPA Migration Mode|
|`Attack 9`|Injection test|

### Testing for Packet Injection

Before sending deauthentication frames, it's important to verify if our wireless card can successfully inject frames into the target access point (AP). This can be tested by measuring the ping response times from the AP, which gives us an indication of the link quality based on the percentage of responses received. Furthermore, if we are using two wireless cards, this test can help identify which card is more effective for injection attacks.

Let's enable monitor mode and set the channel for the interface to 1. We can do this using the airmon-ng command `airmon-ng start wlan0 1`. Alternatively, we can use the `iw` command to set the channel as follows:

```bash
sudo iw dev wlan0mon set channel 1
```

Run test with aireplay-ng

```bash
sudo aireplay-ng --test wlan0mon
```

If everything is in order, we should see the message `Injection is working!` This indicates that our interface supports packet injection, and we are ready to use `aireplay-ng` to perform a de-authentication attack.

### Performing De-Authentication

View available networks with airodump

```bash
sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon
```

Find a client connected to the network you want and then set de-auth request to the client

```bash
sudo aireplay-ng -0 5 -a 00:14:6C:7A:41:81 -c 00:0F:B5:32:31:31 wlan0mon
```

- `-0` means de-authentication
- `5` is the number of de-auths to send (you can send multiple if you wish); `0` means send them continuously
- `-a 00:14:6C:7A:41:81` is the MAC address of the access point
- `-c 00:0F:B5:32:31:31` is the MAC address of the client to de-authenticate; if this is omitted then all clients are de-authenticated
- `wlan0mon` is the interface name

Once the clients are de-authenticated from the AP, we can continue observing `airodump-ng` to see when they reconnect.

```bash
sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon
```

we will see that after sending the de-authentication packet, the client disconnects and then reconnects. This is evidenced by the increase in `Lost` packets and `Frames` count.

Additionally, a `four-way handshake` would be captured by `airodump-ng`, as shown in the output. By using the `-w` option in airodump-ng, we can save the captured WPA handshake into a `.pcap` file. This file can then be used with tools like `aircrack-ng` to crack the pre-shared key (PSK).

## Airdecap-ng

[Airdecap-ng](https://www.aircrack-ng.org/doku.php?id=airdecap-ng) is a valuable tool for decrypting wireless capture files once we have obtained the `key` to a network. It can decrypt `WEP`, `WPA PSK`, and `WPA2 PSK` captures. Additionally, it can remove wireless headers from an `unencrypted` capture file. This tool is particularly useful in analyzing the data within captured packets by making the content readable and removing unnecessary wireless protocol information.

Airdecap-ng can be used for the following:

- Removing wireless headers from an open network capture (Unencrypted capture).
- Decrypting a WEP-encrypted capture file using a hexadecimal WEP key.
- Decrypting a WPA/WPA2-encrypted capture file using the passphrase.

### Usage

```bash
airdecap-ng [options] <pcap filee>
```

|**Option**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`-l`|don't remove the 802.11 header|
|`-b`|access point MAC address filter|
|`-k`|WPA/WPA2 Pairwise Master Key in hex|
|`-e`|target network ascii identifier|
|`-p`|target network WPA/WPA2 passphrase|
|`-w`|target network WEP key in hexadecimal|

`Airdecap-ng` generates a new file with the suffix `-dec.cap,` which contains the decrypted or stripped version of the original input file. For instance, an input file named `HTB-01.cap` will result in an unencrypted output file named `HTB-01-dec.cap`.

### Removing Wireless Headers

Capturing packets on an open network would result in an `unencrypted` capture file. Even if the capture file is already unencrypted, it may still contain numerous frames that are not relevant to our analysis. To streamline the data, we can utilize `airdecap-ng` to eliminate the wireless headers from an unencrypted capture file.

To remove the wireless headers from the capture file using Airdecap-ng, we can use the following command:

```bash
airdecap-ng -b <bssid> <capture-file>
```

### Decrypt WEP-Encrypted Capture

Airdecap-ng is a powerful tool for decrypting WEP-encrypted capture files. Once we have obtained the hexadecimal `WEP key`, we can use it to decrypt the captured packets. This process will remove the wireless encryption, allowing us to analyze the data.

To decrypt a WEP-encrypted capture file using Airdecap-ng, we can use the following command:

```bash
airdecap-ng -w <WEP-key> <capture-file>
```

This will produce a decrypted file with the suffix `-dec.cap`, such as `HTB-01-dec.cap`, containing the unencrypted data ready for further analysis.

### Decrypt WPA-Encrypted Capture

Airdecap-ng can also decrypt WPA-encrypted capture files, provided we have the `passphrase`. This tool will strip the WPA encryption, making it possible to analyze the captured data.

To decrypt a WPA-encrypted capture file using Airdecap-ng, we can use the following command:

```bash
airdecap-ng -p <passphrase> <capture-file> -e <essid>
```

This will produce a decrypted file with the suffix `-dec.cap`, such as `HTB-01-dec.cap`, containing the unencrypted data ready for further analysis.

## Aircrack-ng

Aircrack-ng is a powerful tool designed for network security testing, capable of cracking WEP and WPA/WPA2 networks that use pre-shared keys or PMKID. Aircrack-ng is an offline attack tool, as it works with captured packets and doesn't need direct interaction with any Wi-Fi device.

### Benchmark

Prior to commencing passphrase cracking with Aircrack-ng, it is imperative to assess the benchmark of the host system to ensure its capability to execute brute-force attacks effectively. Aircrack-ng has a benchmark mode to test CPU performance. We'll start with benchmarking to evaluate the performance capabilities of our cracking system.

```bash
aircrack-ng -S
```

Since Aircrack-ng fully utilizes the CPU, the cracking speed can decrease significantly if other demanding tasks are running on the system simultaneously.

### Cracking WEP

Aircrack-ng is capable of recovering the WEP key once a sufficient number of encrypted packets have been captured using Airodump-ng. It is possible to save only the captured IVs (Initialization Vectors) using the --ivs option in Airodump-ng. Once enough IVs are captured, we can utilize the -K option in Aircrack-ng, which invokes the Korek WEP cracking method to crack the WEP key.

Start WEP Cracking

```bash
aircrack-ng -K HTB.ivs
```

### Cracking WPA

Aircrack-ng has the capability to crack the WPA key once a "four-way handshake" has been captured using Airodump-ng. To crack WPA/WPA2 pre-shared keys, only a dictionary-based method can be employed, which necessitates the use of a wordlist containing potential passwords. A "four-way handshake" serves as the required input. For WPA handshakes, a complete handshake comprises four packets. However, Aircrack-ng can effectively operate with just two packets. Specifically, EAPOL packets 2 and 3, or packets 3 and 4, are considered a full handshake.

Start WPA Cracking

```bash
aircrack-ng HTB.pcacp -w /opt/wordlist.txt
```

